So VPN which stands for a virtual private network.
There are several ways that a VPN can be established and most of us are actually having a VPN running
whenever we are visiting.
Banking side or grocery side for example like Amazon.
When you are visiting Amazon you should see that it has 80 G.P.S. mean that your connection is secured
because when you're buying something on Amazon and looking into Amazon you don't want anyone to see
your log in credentials or your card information.
So it's important that the data is encrypted and hidden such that it is only you and Amazon server which
can read this information.
So this is what is called VPN web and it uses Web protocols to establish this virtual private network
and we have several protocols in place to do that.
We have some older one and some newer ones.
The oldest one is the SSL with it you could share the blame.
And that is the Web based VPN hated UBS.
As we see right here whereas this is unencrypted and does not use any of these encryption protocols
SSL is based on certificates in order to make this mutual of indication of a client and a server will
be discussing certificates in much more detailed in upcoming lectures.
But it still is kind of old school now and it is replaced in most cases by what is called Telus and
a more updated version of Telus like Telus one put two.
So Telus is the transport layer security and that has more or less replaced SSL entirely and it is also
based on certificates.
But as the demand for security increases we need newer versions and we need to update the old versions
in order to secure that our information is truly encrypted.
So now we have moved more and more to Telus one point to which enhanced security that we used and all
the protocols and we have for example now having has checks in place and has checking.
It's something that we will also discuss in further leg just like certificates.
So this was a short introduction to the Web protocols used in order to secure our information.
But as you have seen in part 10 VPN is much more than just entering a website and having our information
encrypted VPN is most commonly referred to as when you are having a virtual private network which is
the short the name of the European.
For example when you're sitting at a hotel on a public network or you're sitting at Starbucks on a public
network then you want a way to secure your information so that you for example can connect to your company
resources without having anyone read the information.
So you want to be able to sit on your computer on a hotel with public Internet and then connect out
to the Internet and to your company to fetch this resource and get it received without anyone in between
this communication road.
Having been able to read and download information.
So what we use for the VPN is O2 teepee which is layer to tunneling protocol and that protocol is enable
us to carry layer to traffic overlay a tree.
So remember that layer to were a layer would make addresses Wesley a tree was the layer of IP addresses.
If you haven't seen the first lectures or you simply forgot what the different layers were and the comparison
between them then I recommend you to go words to first lectures of this course.
But even though we have this L2 GP protocol it is not the only path that we need to establish this VPN
connection from our class computer to our server because L2 GP does not have encryption by itself.
It is basically just what is used for us to transport some information from one point to another.
And then we need to use IP sic as our encryption measure and it indication Misha.
So we are using L2 GP with IP sic on top of it.